# 6.1. Lists

Lists are built-in to the Elixir language. They are considered a basic type, denoted by square brackets. Lists may be empty or hold any number of items of any type. For example:
```elixir
empty_list = []
one_item_list = [1]
two_item_list = [1, 2]
multiple_type_list = [1, :pi, 3.14, "four"]
```

Elixir implements lists as a linked list, where each node stores two values: the first item and another list with all the remaining items. The first item in the list is referred to as the _head_ and the remaining list of items is called the _tail_. We can use this notation in code:
```elixir
# [1] represented in [head | tail] notation
[1 | []]

# [1, 2, 3] represented in [head | tail] notation
[1 | [2 | [3 | []]]]
```

We can use _`[head | tail]`_ notation to prepend elements to a list:
```elixir
# Suppose
list = [2, 1]

[3, 2, 1] == [3 | list]
# => true
```

There are several functions in the `Kernel` module for working with lists, as well as the whole `List` module.
```elixir
# Check if 1 is a member of the list
1 in [1, 2, 3, 4]
# => true
```
# 6.2. Tuples
In Elixir, a tuple is a data structure which organizes data, holding a fixed number of items of any type, but without explicit names for each element. Tuples are often used in Elixir for memory read-intensive operations, since read-access of an element is a constant-time operation. They are not usually used when elements may need to be added/removed dynamically because rather than modifying the existing tuple, a new tuple is created which requires memory to be allocated upfront.

In practice, tuples are created in Elixir using curly braces. Elements in a tuple can be individually accessed using the `elem/2` function using 0-based indexing:
```elixir
empty_tuple = {}
one_element_tuple = {1}
multiple_element_tuple = {1, :a, "hello"}

elem(multiple_element_tuple, 2)
# => "hello"
```

#### Tuples as grouped information
Tuples are often used in practice to represent grouped information.
```elixir
Float.ratio(0.25)
# => {1, 4} indicating the numerator and denominator of the fraction ¼
```